Solution to Insight's Border Patrol Analysis Challenge

Consider only the "input", "output", and "source file" folders.

The source file, "border-crossing-analysis.py", explores the Border Patrol dataset in Python. No additional libraries or modules were loaded in. Only Python's fundamental data structures are used for analysis, specifically lists represented as arrays; NumPy arrays and Pandas dataframes are absent.

Only three modules were loaded in: "os" and "csv" to export the output file and "math" to round up floating point values. "Math" is not used for anything but rounding, and it's needed due to Python's round() function and the way floating points are stored (i.e., to round floating points to an integer, Python rounds the value to the nearest even integer, not nearest value). Thus, all floats are rounded up, for safety.

In the output file, "report.csv", the data are organized by  Border, Date, Measure, Value, and Average. The "Value" column represents the total number of crossings for a particular Measure per month ("Date") at a particular Border. The "Average" column is a 2-month simple rolling average of the total number of crossings per Border, per month, for a particular Measure. Alternatively, code is available to calculate a cumulative rolling average, which is different from a simple rolling average -- simply remove the block comment from the code and execute the program.

This program accepts any Border Crossing dataset size (e.g., "Border_Crossing_Entry_Data_large.csv"), though the small, 7-line dataset provided by Insight is loaded in by default. In-line comments regarding specific steps and variables are written in the program for both readability and traceability.

As an added bonus, included is another source file, "border-crossing-analysis_grouped_measure.py". This program performs the same calculations (sum and moving or rolling average) under the same conditions as the other source file, but each Measure is grouped and aggregated into four categories: Vehicles, Equipment, Passengers, and Pedestrians. This adds a level of complexity to the program. This program accepts the Border Crossing dataset of any size. For smaller datasets, manual input from the user is required; just follow the prompts printed to the screen, and read them carefully. Any misspellings will result in errors or hault the program, requiring re-execution. If the program is used to analyze the full Border Crossing dataset, no manual input is necessary; it's a simple I/O program.
